By Jupiter is a musical with a book by Lorenz Hart and Richard Rodgers,
music by Rodgers, and lyrics by Hart. The musical is based on the play The
Warrior's Husband by Julian F. Thompson, set in the land of the Amazons. By
Jupiter premiered on Broadway in 1942 and starred Ray Bolger.

In the land of the Amazons the women rule and do battle while the men stay
at home, mind the children, and buy new hats. An army of Greek soldiers,
led by Theseus and Hercules, arrives in search of the Sacred Girdle of
Diana, currently in the hands of reigning Queen Hippolyta. Accompanying
them is war correspondent Homer, author of a recent bestseller called The
Iliad. The Greek warriors are captured by the Amazons, and romance blossoms
between Theseus and Antiope, the warrior-leader of the Amazons. A subplot
involves Hippolyta's foppish husband Sapiens, forced on her by his wealthy
mother, in exchange for financing the war against the Greeks, who employs
his "non-traditionally-male wiles" to get his way with the opposite sex.

The Broadway production opened at the Shubert Theatre on June 3, 1942 and
closed on June 12, 1943 after 427 performances. Directed by Joshua Logan
and choreographed by Robert Alton, the cast included Ray Bolger, Benay
Venuta, Vera-Ellen, and Constance Moore, who was replaced by Nanette Fabray
later in the run. Choreographer Flower Hujer danced in the production.

At one point, 20th Century Fox considered pairing Laurel and Hardy with
Martha Raye in a movie version of the show, but the idea was eventually
shelved.

A revival opened Off-Broadway at the Theatre Four on January 19, 1967 and
closed on April 30, 1968 after 118 performances. This production had new
material by Fred Ebb. Directed by Christopher Hewett with choreography and
musical staging by Ellen Ray, Bob Dishy headed the cast. An original cast
recording was released of this production, reissued in CD on September 11,
2007 by DRG.

Ian Marshall Fisher's Discovering Lost Musicals Charitable Trust presented
a concert staging in London at the Barbican Center, Cinema 1 in May 1992,
with Louise Gold as Hippolyta and Jon Glover as Sapiens. Issy Van Randwyck
was also among the cast.


